The last thing I'd like to do is
to demonstrate that the linear
regression slope estimate is beta 1 hat
equal to the correlation between y and
x times the standard deviation of y
divided by the standard deviation of x.
I'd like to demonstrate that.
It's going to take some doing and
if you don't want to get this
involved in the mathematics,
now would be the good time to stop
the lecture and move on to the next one.
However, if you are interested,
again, I'm going to do this in a way that
doesn't require advanced mathematics, but
you have to be familiar with mathematical
notation and pretty comfortable with it.
So before I do full regression,
let me do regression through the origin.
Let me draw this line here.
So, I want to fit the best line y
equal to x Beta through my data.
My data is y1 up to yn and
X one up to xn.
I would like then to
minimize the criteria.
Summation, yi minus xi beta squared.
Where the sum is from i equal 1 to n.
Let me let beta hat be the solution and
we'll see what
has to happen about that solution to make,
to make it work.
So this equation here is equal
to the summation i equal 1 to n,
yi minus xi beta hat plus xi beta hat.
Simply, because I've just added zero.
Minus xi beta squared.
All I've done is add zero.
I can expand this square,
summation i equal 1 to n,
yi minus xi beta hat squared and
then I'm going to distribute my sum.
Minus twice summation i equal one to n,
yi, y i minus x i beta hat times
xi beta hat minus x i beta
plus the summation xi beta
hat minus xi beta squared.
Now, if I get rid of this term,
it's adding up a bunch of positive things.
I'll only get smaller, because I'll have
thrown away something that's positive.
So, if I take 6, which is 4 plus 2 and
throw away the 2, I've gotten smaller.
Okay.
Let's look at this term right here.
If beta hat fForces this term to be zero,
then let me just
rewrite this, if it's zero,
I will get the following.
[SOUND] I'll get that my
least square's criteria for
any beta is larger than what I get when
I plugin beta hat specifically.
So that beta hat would have to be
the minimizer, because every other beta is
at least, creates a, a least squares
criteria at least as large or larger.
So, if we can make this term zero,
then we've found our estimate.
So, I want to solve
summation i equal 1 to n,
yi minus xi beta hat.
Xi times beta hat minus beta.
I would like to solve that equal to zero.
This term does not depend on i, so
I could divide from both sides of
the equation and it would simply go away.
Solving this equation for
beta hat yields the solution
summation i equal 1 to n,
yi xi divided by summation xi squared,
i equal 1 to n.
So that yields our beta hat for
regression through the origin.
Let's consider an example,
that we've already shown otherwise.
So, imagine if x1 all the way
up to xn are all equal to one.
Then my equation where I want to
minimize summation yi minus xi beta,
my regression to the origin
equation works out to be
summation yi minus beta quantity squared.
It's mean only regression.
Our result says that beta hat for
regression to the origin in
this case is summation yi xi
divided by summation xi squared.
Which in this case is summation yi
Xi is 1so, 1 squared is 1.
And if I add them up, I get n.
So, it's y bar.
Simply, reiterating our proof
earlier that y bar is the solution
to the least squares criteria for
mean only regression.
So let's consider general
linear regression.
Here is our equation for our line and
here is the least squares criteria
that we would like to obtain.
We would like to find a beta nought in
beta one that minimize that equation.
Our work already is going to
make this very easy.
Imagine for the, for the moment
that beta one is fixed and known.
Then I'm simply going to rewrite this
equation as summation i equal 1 to n,
yi minus beta 1xi minus beta
nought quantity squared.
And then I'm going to write that
as summation i equal one to n,
y star minus beta nought squared,
where y star is equal to yi minus beta1xi.
We know the least squares
solution to this equation.
It has to be, the solution has to be beta
nought has to be equal to the average.
I forgot my i subscript there, so
why don't I put it right there and
right there.
Has to be average of the y i stars.
Let's plug back in what yi star is.
It's summation yi minus
beta 1xi divided by n.
If I distribute out that sum,
I get y bar minus beta 1x bar.
So my least squares criteria
is only going to get
smaller if I plugin a beta nought that
satisfies y bar minus beta 1x bar.
So why don't I do that?
And I get summation i equal 1 to n, yi.
And now, I'm simply going to
plugin my new beta nought.
Because I know that whatever solution
beta nought and beta one are,
they have to follow this relationship.
Which is again, saying that the fitted
regression line has to go through
the average of the y's and
the average of the x's.
So, it's yi minus the beta
nought that I just solved for.
Y bar minus beta 1.
X bar minus beta 1xi.
So we know our solution has to do that.
Now this is equal to
summation i equal 1 to n,
yi minus y bar minus xi minus
x bar times beta 1 squared and
I forgot my square right there.
Now, and
I'm going to put some parentheses here.
I'm going to rewrite this.
Again, this is summation i equal 1 to n,
y tilde minus x tilde i in both
cases times beta 1 squared.
This is exactly regression to the origin.
Where now my outcome is y tilde and
my predictor is x tilde,
where yi tilde is equal to the centered y,
yi minus y bar and
my Xi tilde is equal to the centered xs,
xi minus x bar.
Well, we know what the least squares
estimate for this equation is.
The beta 1 hat has to
be summation yi tilde
times xi tilde divided by
summation xi tilde squared.
Let's just plugin what yi tilde and
xi tilde are.
That summation yi minus
y bar times xi minus
x bar divided by summation
xi minus x bar squared.
Thus, I can divide both sides
by n minus 1, the numerator,
both both the numerator and
the denominator by n minus 1.
And this works out to be
the covariance between y and
x divided by the variance of x, which I
can write as the correlation between y and
x times the standard deviation of y
over the standard deviation of x.
So my beta one hat has to be this,
the formula that we gave.
Then my beta nought hat is given above
as y bar minus beta 1 hat x bar.